The source is: overview of natural language processing 
of captions for retrieving multimedia data 
eugene j. guglielmo?
naval weapons center. 
information systems department,  code 2724 
china lake,  cal i fornia 93555 
neil c. rowe 
naval postgraduate school 
computer  science department,  code 52 
monterey,  cal i fornia 93943 
abstract 
this paper briefly describes the current implementa- 
tion status of an intelligent information retrieval sys- 
tem, marie, that employs natural language process- 
ing techniques. descriptive captions are used to iden- 
tify photographic images concerning various military 
projects. the captions are parsed to produce a logical 
form from which nouns and verbs are extracted to 
form the primary keywords. user queries are also 
specified in natural language. a two-phase search pro- 
cess employing coarse-grain and fine-grain match pro- 
cesses is used to find the captions that best match the 
query. a type hierarchy based on object-oriented pro- 
gramming constructs i used to represent the semantic 
knowledge base. this knowledge base contains 
knowledge of various military concepts and terminol- 
ogy with specifics from the naval weapons center. 
methods are used for creating the logical form during 
semantic analysis, generating the keywords to be used 
in the coarse-grain match process, and fine-grain 
matching between query and caption logical forms. 
1 introduction 
recent approaches to intelligent information retrieval have 
used natural language (nl) understanding methods instead of 
keywords and statistical methods. however, the best nl 
method is still unknown. this research studies a restricted 
form of information, the description associated with 
identifying multimedia data, i.e., natural language captions. 
the rationale and motivation for using captions was 
presented by lum and meyer-wegener (1990). a prototype 
parser was developed for demonstrating how natural language 
queries could be used in conjunction with structured query 
language (sql) for specifying retrieval requests from a 
multimedia database. 
using these results at the naval postgraduate school, we 
have been able to design a more robust natural anguage 
processing and retrieval system for potential use at the naval 
weapons center (nwc). the center's photo lab maintains 
a database of over 100,000 photographs of project and 
historical data from the last 50 years. both captions and 
supercaptions (caption about a set of captions) are used. the 
current search and retrieval strategy uses manually created 
keywords organized into a keyphrase - a head keyword and a 
string of descriptive nouns. our strategy entails parsing the 
english captions to produce a logical form, then using the 
logical form as the basis of the retrieval. we have labeled 
this system marie (epistemological information retrieval 
applied to multimedia). 
2 methodology 
the information retrieval system we have developed isbased 
on two stages:.a coarse-grain match to reduce the list of 
possible information for a later fine-grain match (rau 1987). 
three tasks that we deemed essential for this system included 
the ability to represent and produce a logical form of the 
caption, the ability to generate keywords from the logical 
form, and the ability to load in previously stored caption 
logical forms for matching against the query logical form. 
2.1 nl parser 
we have used an existing natural language processing pro- 
gram, the dbg message understanding system 
(montgomery et al. 1989), as a starting point. this program 
was developed for understanding dialog conversations. to ac- 
commodate he existing captions at nwc, we had to make 
modifications to the grammar, functional parser, and tem- 
plate processor. 
the grammar rules were changed to enable parsing of 
punctuation, descriptive noun phrases, dates, geographic 
locations, numeric and descriptive vehicle designations. 
additional rules were introduced to handle theme-oriented 
phrases as opposed to agent-initiated sentences. the structure 
of functional parse output was altered to accommodate 
mapping into the type hierarchy. specifically, tokens were 
introduced to allow linking together words based on 
syntactic relationships. the resulting output structure 
appears imilar to slot-assertion notation. 
in the original dbg system, the template processor 
produced frame structures for a semantic analysis of the 
sentence. this portion of the system was redone using an 
object-oriented programming methodology. we have created 
a single type hierarchy to hold both nouns and verbs. 
producing the logical form is a matter of mapping the 
predicate xpressions from the functional parse output into 
the type hierarchy. methods are used to set inner cases for 
both nouns and verbs (e.g., theme, agent, location, etc.); set 
modifiers for nouns and verbs (e.g., adjectives and adverbs); 
231
set correlations between classes (e.g., part_of, has_part, 
program_about, etc.); and generate the logical form from 
class instances and associated slot values. 
2.2 generating the keywords 
keyword records to be used in the coarse-grain match are ob- 
tained from the type hierarchy directly rather than from the 
logical form output. an instance of a class uses the class 
name as the keyword. the keyword is based on logically 
proper names, not definite descriptions as described by 
frixione et al. (1989). methods are defined for caching 
keyword records containing the caption identifier and any 
case information to a keyword file for each class instance. 
each class has a keyword file maintained in sorted order. 
2.3 matching 
once an english query is instantiated within the type hierar- 
chy to reflect he query logical form, the instances indicate 
which class and subclass keyword files need to be examined 
in the coarse-grain match. the corresponding keyword files 
are read, and the keyword records are intersected using the 
caption-id as the unique identifier. in the future, case 
information will be used at query time for specifying the 
role for a word (e.g, initiator of an action as opposed to the 
recipient) and treated as a filter in selecting the appropriate 
case records within the keyword file. caption-ids whose 
intersection score exceed a coarse-grain match threshold 
become ligible for fine-grain matching. 
fine-grain matching entails mapping the logical form for 
a stored parsed caption back into the type hierarchy and 
matching it against he query instances within the hierarchy. 
figure 1 shows the appearance of the type hierarchy with the 
existence of both the query "missile on stand" and caption 
262865, "sidewinder aim 9r missile on stand," within it. 
phys obl i 
noun(query-l-i) ~ /  
on(noun(query-l-2)) noun(query-l-2) 
noun(262865-1-2) 
lair-to-air 
missile i 
query: missile on stand 
caption: sidewinder aim 9r missi/e 
\[sidewinder \[ on stand 
~ query inst's 
on(noun(262865-1-2) ~ caption inst's 
figure 1 fine-grain matching in type hierarchy 
instance matching is based on subtype matching. in 
figure 1, the query instance for the class "missile" matches 
the query instance for the class "aim-9r." matching of rela- 
tionships is currently based on exact matching. the match- 
ing process is being modified to allow relationship matching 
based on a predefined set of relationships. caption-ids with 
match scores exceeding a fine-grain match threshold are 
presented to the user. 
3 implementat ion status 
the majority of the system is written in quintus prolog. 
with the type hierarchy being developed using the elsa-lap 
object-oriented prolog tool. the system runs on sun 
sparcstations and was designed using a client-server 
relationship; the user search environment and key creation 
interface form the two clients and a server process handles 
the parsing of the natural anguage, generation of the keys, 
and the matching. the lexicon has over 1000 lexical items 
and the type hierarchy has over 200 classes. further 
implementation a d methodology details can be found in 
guglielmo and rowe (1991). 
4 future research 
the present system handles individual captions that describe 
an individual photograph. future work will investigate 
supercaptions. for example, supercaptions that are used to 
represent all captions from the same chapter of a book or a 
supercaption that is used to represent all captions that 
pertain to a combat plan. all of the member captions hare 
something in common, and the intersection of this common 
information forms the supercaption. 
5 conclusion 
the ability to use natural anguage for query specification 
and retrieval holds the most promise over keyword and 
keyphrase approaches. we believe that the restricted use of 
natural language in captions for multimedia data retrieval is 
a less difficult task than full natural anguage fact retrieval. 
we feel that we have a system that can be demonstrated and 
built upon not only for retrieving images but also other 
forms of multimedia data as well. 
references  
frixione, m., s. gaglio, and g. spinelli. 1989. are there 
individual concepts? proper names and individual concepts 
in si-nets. intl. journal man-machine studies 30:489-503. 
guglielmo, e.j. and rowe, n.c. 1991. natural language 
processing of captions for retrieving multimedia data. 
tech pub. tp-7203. naval weapons center, information 
systems department, china lake, ca. december. 
lum, v. y. and k. meyer-wegener. 1990. "an architecture 
for a multimedia database management system supporting 
content search." in advances in computing and 
information, proceedings ofthe international conference on 
computing and information. niagra falls, canada, may 23- 
26. 
montgomery, c. a., j. burge, h. holmback, j. l. kuhns, 
b. g. stalls, r. stumberger, and r. l. russel jr. 1989. 
the dbg message understanding system. in proceedings of
the annual ai systems in government conference, 
washington, d.c., march 27-31. 
rau, l. 1987. "knowledge organization and access in a 
conceptual information system." information processing &
management 23, no. 4:269-283. 
232

score: 1.0000000000000002
file name: A92-1033.pdf.txt
score: 0.6214419375322435
file name: D14-1064.pdf.txt
score: 0.6214075081421436
file name: A92-1010.pdf.txt
score: 0.6133024579728416
file name: E83-1032.pdf.txt
score: 0.6107623052663174
file name: A88-1014.pdf.txt
